# Prospe-Loan-Python-Data-Analysis.
This notebook contains a series of python codes. The aim was to clean and analyze the Prosper loan data for better insights.
 The data of observation explores 113066 rows and 81 columns containing categorical and quantitaive data which help to describe a demographic of borrowers and their loan status for the Prosper Loan company between the duratio of 2005 to 2014. The main feature of interest in this dataset is the Loan status and how we can predict the best demographic or consumer group to provide loans in other to ensure profit and curb loss for the company. This Exploration is aimed at getting observing the current status of all loans approved over this period and find a trend for the number of loans given out across the observation period. I aslo aim to investigate the major group benefitting from the loan program as regards their employment status.

    To give better insight of what demographic of customers would have benefitted the most from all approved loans over this period, we are seeking to expore the relationship between the Loan Status, Emplyment status of the customers for the duration of 2005-2014. I also intend to explore the Borrower's income satus, the preferred loan term payback duration of loans that were given out and the predictability success rate of the company's effective yield.

Many Interesting variables abound in the dataset and for this project we would be exploring the different variables and how they relate to one another. We would also be plotting some visualizations using univariate, bivariate and multivariate plots to explore many relationships in the data set. Some findings and jey insights would also be derived for a slide deck presentation.
